<html><body><p>With all the excitement at EuroClash, and some other interesting fixtures today, we're giving you a quick roundup of all the action that's happened so far....</p><p>Day 1 of <b>EuroClash</b> saw the following games played in Newcastle, England - * indicates an upset in terms of the lower-seeded team winning, ! indicates an exceptional performance, although the predicted team won:</p><table><tbody><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">TEAM 1</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">TEAM 2</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">RATIO</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">WFTDA Pred(relative strength)</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">SRDRank Pred</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Tiger Bay Brawlers: <strong>370</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>55</strong>: Steel City Roller Derby</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">6.73 (!)</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.03</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.79</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Newcastle Roller Girls: <strong>149</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>168</strong>: Birmingham Blitz Dames</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.89</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.71</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.77</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Dublin Roller Derby: <strong>199</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>222</strong>: Dock City Rollers</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.90 (*)</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">2.02</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.40</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Birmingham Blitz Dames: <strong>177</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>106</strong>: Steel City Roller Derby</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.70</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">2.08</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.69</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Newcastle Roller Girls: <strong>115</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>161</strong>: Tiger Bay Brawlers</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.71</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">1.45</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.73</td></tr></tbody></table><p>The most striking deviation from prediction was the massive victory of Cardiff's Tiger Bay Brawlers over the US's Steel City Roller Derby in the first game of the tournament - smashing all predictions. Notably, both teams performed closer to expectations on their other games during the day.<br>The other upset of the day was an actual upset - and one of the more likely ones in the event, as Dock City Roller Derby narrowly toppled tournament favorites Dublin - breaking a long winning streak for the latter team, in the second period, after trailing by 40 points at the end of the first.</p><p>You can catch up with the equally exciting second day of EuroClash - including all of Auld Reekie Roller Girls, Central City Roller Derby and Middlesbrough Roller Derby's games - with the livestream, which will be linked from the EuroClash page, and <b><a href="https://wftda.tv/live/euro-clash-2018-day-2/">WFTDA.tv</a></b>.</p><hr><p>Over in Spain, <b><a href="https://www.facebook.com/events/1817946238265787/">Brawlcelona</a></b> sees Barcelona Roller Derby hosting Madrid, Münich and Prague for games, three of which happened today (we'll update the final score when we manage to acquire it):</p><table><tbody><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">TEAM 1</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">TEAM 2</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">RATIO</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">SRDRank Pred</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Prague City Roller Derby:<strong>45</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>401</strong>:Roller Derby Madrid</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.11</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.30</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Barcelona Roller Derby: <strong>110</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>153</strong>: Roller Derby Madrid</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.72</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.80</td></tr><tr><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">Prague City Roller Derby: <strong>39</strong></td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1"><strong>319</strong>: Münich Dynamite</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.12</td><td colspan="1" rowspan="1">0.45</td></tr></tbody></table><p>Note that Prague City are playing in this tournament with only a roster of 8, and played part of their second game, against Münich, with only 5! Considering this, their achieved scores are impressive indeed.</p><p>Sadly, there's no live stream for the Brawlcelona tournament as it continues tomorrow.</p><hr><p>Finally, some updates from the Scottish Roller Derby fixtures:</p><p>Over in Glasgow, Glasgow Roller Derby hosted Dundee Roller Derby for a double-header, between both A and both B teams. The A team matchup has been something of a long-awaited contest.<br>SRDRank predicted a near draw for the B teams, and a 5:4 score ratio in Dundee's favour. As it happens, Dundee blew away expectations in both games, with a convincing victory away, especially for the travel team.</p><p>Maiden Grrders (Glasgow B)  <b>170 : 207</b>  Bonnie Colliders (Dundee B)<br>Irn Bruisers (Glasgow A) <b>144 : 373</b> Silvery Tayzers (Dundee A)</p><p>Down in London, ignoring any other international events happening in the area, Glasgow Men's Roller Derby played a pair of closed bouts against London's Southern Discomfort. SRDRank predicted a 10:1 victory for SoDisco A, and a 4:7 victory for SoDisco B, and the performance on the day met expectations.</p>Glasgow Men's Roller Derby <b>150 : 215</b> Mild Discomfort (Southern Discomfort B)<br>Glasgow Men's Roller Derby <b>46 : 504</b> Knights of Discomfort (Southern Discomfort A)</body></html>
